THE TALE OF THE SILKEN ROBE
Sir, we have a new performance,
The Tale of the Silken Robe.
A lost mother, an abandoned child,
and a courtroom trial of the father.
A life adrift, tangled with
love and resentment,
and an unbreakable bond
between a father and a son.
Please step inside.
Please come in.
That young lady in the fox mask,
-keep an eye on her.
-Yes, sir.
Let's see what happens next
The entire family
Was murdered by the bandit, Xu Neng
Xu Neng?
That's my father's name
Could my father be…
Unbelievable!
Bravo!
Nice!
This play is excellent.
But with the son discovering his father
is not only a bandit
but possibly his mother's killer,
I suppose this must end in tragedy.
Please listen on and see for yourself.
Not necessarily.
People love plays because,
no matter how great the conflict,
they often end with reconciliation.
Life, on the other hand,
is far less forgiving.
It's easy to find companions in joy
but rare to find those
who share your sorrows.
Young Lady, if you doubt me,
why not watch the ending together
and see whether it's a tragedy
or a happy ending?
Alright.
Remove this screen.
It'll feel more spacious
with the candlelight and breeze.
-Waiter, remove the screen, please.
-Right away!
STRING OF PEARLS, WONDROUS MELODY
Bravo!
How strange.
It's neither a tragedy nor a happy ending.
Is the play unfinished?
The son is an official,
and the father is a bandit.
Family bonds and justice
stand as irreconcilable opposites,
so naturally, the ending is hard to write.
If the second act really depicted
the son putting his father on trial,
wouldn't that be shocking
and unconventional?
You think a son
shouldn't judge his father?
That familial bonds outweigh justice?
What I mean is,
what's wrong with being unconventional?
Filial piety is essential for a son,
and loyalty is paramount for an official.
It all comes down
to whether he chooses to be a good son
or a good official.
When there's no way to satisfy both,
any choice leads to tragedy.
This protagonist is a pitiable man.
This gentleman must also be torn
between family and justice,
which is why he's so sorrowful.
And if it were up to you
to write the ending?
In the courtroom,
judge as the law requires.
Outside the courtroom,
behind closed doors,
return to being a son.
Set aside grand principles
and offer some gentle words.
If that doesn't work,
then just kneel on a washboard.
Well, that would turn it into a comedy.
Ladies and gentlemen,
you're in for a treat!
In celebration of the Granary Festival,
I've prepared a riddle game
with small prizes
to entertain and delight you.
ADAPTED FROM THE NOVEL BLOSSOM
BY AUTHOR ZIZI FROM QIDIAN CHINESE WEBSITE
The objects hidden are from the tavern.
The actors will perform clues as hints.
Everyone is welcome to guess.
The one with
the most correct answers wins.
Now, let's begin with the first question!
Empty city walls, galloping warhorses
Year after year
Corpses pile high and crows wail
Warhorses?
That wouldn't fit under the cover!
That's from the Three Tunes of Yuyang.
Mi Heng beat the drum and rebuked Cao Cao.
The object must be drumsticks.
Correct!
Bravo!
You even know about
historical military references?
Could you be a man disguised as a woman?
A woman can be just as capable as any man.
Now for the second riddle!
Surrounded by women's attire
Yet standing tall
As if holding up the sky
Who says it's the domain of men?
Hua Mulan joined the army
in place of her father.
To disguise herself as a man,
she had to wipe away her makeup.
The object in the box
must be rouge used by opera actresses.
Correct!
Bravo!
You're so knowledgeable
about women's cosmetics.
Do you often frequent brothels?
In books, there is beauty to be found.
Hey, why don't the two of you
take your bickering home?
-Spare us all this back-and-forth.
-Right.
-Right, guys?
-Just go home.
-Yes.
What's the fun in that?
It's only interesting if there's a winner!
Exactly. To give up without a fight
would be unworthy of a man.
Is there a third riddle?
-Yes, is there?
-Yeah.
Here comes the third riddle!
Hearing the Song of Chu stirs sorrow
Tears flow as one longs for home
The Battle of Gaixia,
surrounded by the Song of Chu.
-The Chu army…
-The Chu army longs for home.
And longing for home
means a desire to return.
The item must be from the tavern's menu.
Angelica root, which also
symbolizes return home.
-Correct!
-Bravo!
Correct! This young lady
wins by a slight edge.
We both answered, I was just quicker.
Thank you for letting me have this one.
Those two words
you blurted out, "return home,"
are a luxury I dare not hope for.
I concede wholeheartedly.
What do you think is on his mind?
He's upset about losing?
He's thinking about the family
he's at odds with
and the hometown he hasn't
returned to in a long time.
Congratulations, madam.
Thank you.
A painting of
the Twenty-Four Filial Exemplars?
Too bad, it's of no use to me.
Young Master!
My young lady would like you to have this.
I dare to take a guess
at the riddle of your heart.
Though I'm not sure if I'll get it right.
You are knowledgeable and talented,
losing not in wisdom
but to the weight of family sorrow.
If your loved ones are still here,
why not try humbling yourself,
just as in the story of entertaining
one's parents with colorful clothes?
A mask hides her face,
and our meeting was brief.
Yet she is so perceptive and insightful.
Young Master,
Grand General has sent an urgent message.
A typhoon has struck Futing.
Disaster relief requires
your immediate return.
A scented sachet?
That's an item for women.
Were you at…
Don't overthink it.
I went to watch a play.
It must have gotten caught on me while
I was walking alongside other guests.
Given your discreet departure
from the army,
it's best to keep your whereabouts hidden.
You should just discard it.
A lady's belonging
falling into the wrong hands
could cause unnecessary trouble.
I'll return it to her myself
when we meet again.
Oh, and pass this lantern to my father.
I'll see you at the inn an hour later.
Send her home at dawn
once I'm done with her.
Get out of here and lay low for now.
-Yes, sir.
-Go.
Pang Kun Bai?
-What are you trying to do?
-What am I trying to do?
I'm going to enjoy
a good time with you, of course.
How did you…
-How did you…
-Well, let's enjoy a good time then.
Beat him!
Please stop!
Show me mercy!
I came here to stargaze,
but it turned into such a good show.
Interesting.
Please spare us!
We're just hired hands doing a job!
You have the skills but
refuse to use them for good.
Instead, you defile women
and ruin their reputations.
Killing you would be justified.
Dou Zhao, it's a misunderstanding!
I was knocked out
and brought here by them too.
I don't know anything!
Don't hit me! I'll take responsibility!
I'll marry you.
-No one will speak ill of you.
-Shut up!
When I saw you exchanging glances
with Wang Ying Xue at the banquet,
I knew you were up to something.
I had someone look into you.
You're her nephew.
You two bank on the idea that a woman
values her reputation above all else,
thinking the Young Lady would
choose to marry you in the end.
You wanted her private wealth,
which she worked hard for over ten years,
to become her dowry and fill your coffers.
Let's see who's more afraid of the scandal
reaching the authorities,
me or your Wang family,
which would lose its reputation entirely?
Take them away!
Scram!
Little dreamer, looks like Grandmother
has been taking good care of you.
It's a book left by a carefree recluse,
meant for someone destined to find it.
Looks like you're that lucky one.
Yuan Tong?
It really is you.
What are you doing here?
Since you're a friend,
why did you let that scoundrel
Pang Kun Bai go?
You were putting on an act for me.
Aunt!
-What are you…
-Aunt, we're in trouble!
What… What happened to you?
You're a grown man, and you
even brought some men with you.
How did you get beaten up by a girl?
Aunt, she… She knew what we were up to.
We walked right into her trap!
Useless!
Madam! Madam, it's bad!
Young Lady Zhao is here
with the authorities!
Quickly, hide in the side room! Go!
Madam!
Is everything alright here?
I was out admiring the lanterns
and got attacked by bandits.
Together with Constable Wang and his men,
we chased them all the way here.
And turns out
this is my own family's estate!
This is Dou's Residence.
Bandits wouldn't dare to hide here.
What a ridiculous notion.
-Let go of me!
-Constable Wang.
He's here.
You…
How dare you?
These two children are family.
What's this outsider doing here
making baseless accusations?
Madam Wang, a pleasure to meet you.
My name is Ji Yong,
a distant relative of Old Madam Cui.
I'm the one who reported this
to the authorities.
Young Master Ji is the latest
top scorer in the provincial exams.
Take him away!
Let go of me!
Aunt! Aunt!
Help, Aunt!
-Aunt!
-Madam.
It really hurts when you're betrayed
by your family, doesn't it?
Or was it your idea all along?
You…
This is a serious matter, very serious.
I'll go fetch Fifth Master
and Seventh Master
to accompany us to the authorities.
Any misunderstandings
can be cleared up there.
No! They…
They're already asleep.
Let's not trouble them over this, alright?
You put on quite the performance.
If you had taken him
to the authorities yourself,
they wouldn't have dared charge him due
to the Wang and Dou families' influence.
But being arrested by them
is a different story.
Wang Ying Xue will have
a hard enough time explaining this
to my father and the Wang family.
Preposterous! You've gone too far!
He's just a distant nephew.
You'd rather believe him than me?
I can't believe he would accuse me
of something as serious as kidnapping!
Your own nephew turned
against you and accused you,
how can that be false?
I just can't understand.
You used to be
such a kind and patient woman.
Why have you become like this?
Master,
is it me who's changed, or is it you?
No matter how others
mocked me in the past,
you always defended and protected me.
But somewhere along the way,
we ceased to be
just Shi Ying and Ying Xue,
we became merely Master and Madam.
Ever since we slept in different rooms,
you've seen me as a villain.
Anytime something bad happens to Dou Zhao,
you pin the blame on me!
Let's stick to the matter at hand.
Don't bring up unrelated issues.
This isn't unrelated!
I know you've never moved on
from Gu Qiu's death,
and so you blame everything on me.
It's been 16 years.
Has Dou Zhao ever
shown filial respect to you?
But I, Wang Ying Xue,
whether at home or in the court,
have poured everything I have
into supporting your family.
What more do you want from me?
You might as well divorce me!
Ying Xue, Ying Xue!
That's not what I meant.
But Shou Gu has indeed been wronged.
Father.
Mother.
Zhao has ordered for the carriage.
She's leaving.
Ming,
your mother's eyes
are irritated by pollen.
Wipe her tears for her.
Yes, Father.
Mother, you've devoted yourself
to managing the household.
-Father knows this in his heart.
-I know.
But he always takes Dou Zhao's side.
If I didn't cause a scene today,
how else would I remove
this thorn from his heart?
Father longs for family harmony.
Why not be more magnanimous
and try to mend your relationship
with Zhao and Grandmother?
I'm the matron of this house.
Why should I bow to them?
Have you lost your mind?
As long as she stays unmarried,
your marriage can't even be discussed.
Her enormous wealth
should be used as your dowry!
Whether my dowry is more or less,
whether I'm getting married early or late,
I don't care about all of that.
Foolish girl!
I didn't give the Dou family a son,
so I have no choice
but to fight for what's ours.
But I never expected
you to grow into such a spineless coward.
Now I don't even know what
I've been fighting for all this time.
If I knew you'd be like this,
I never would have
let someone else raise you!
Mother,
I know I'm useless,
but I really don't want you
taking such great risks for me.
Loan-sharking is
explicitly forbidden by the court.
Over the years, you've been
working with the Cangbei Gang…
Silence!
You mustn't speak of such things.
You're crying?
All you ever do is cry.
What good does crying do?
I know that, but I just can't help it.
I'm so useless.
Ming,
since you know crying is useless,
you must do everything I say.
Remember,
your dowry, your family's influence,
and your reputation
will all affect your marriage prospects.
If I don't fight for you today,
your future will be nothing
but a life of walking on eggshells.
You can't even control your tears now.
How will you ever endure
the hardships of being a wife?
Shou Gu.
Shou Gu, I failed to protect you.
This is all my fault.
I promise I'll make it up to you.
It's not your fault, Father.
It's mine for ever having expectations
in the first place.
Done.
Peony Fish Fillet,
a famous dish of Sichuan.
The preparation for
Peony Fish Fillet is so intricate.
Even restaurants
in the capital rarely serve it.
Shou Gu, who taught you how to make this?
Let me try a bite first.
Zhang Ru, I made this for Ji Jian Ming.
It wouldn't be proper
for you to eat it first.
Alright then.
I'm not sure if he likes spicy food,
so I also made him
Thousand Threads Shrimp.
Zhang Ru, what are you doing?
Su Su, what have you been
busy with over there?
I wanted something auspicious,
so I made a dessert.
Gold and Jade Treasure.
It looks great.
I wonder what he's thinking.
He gives up the comforts of the capital
and insists on staying
in this countryside estate.
Yes, Zhao, tell us how you two met.
I met him when I was little,
at the Wanfo Temple.
Given your condition…
You might as well
just return to heaven instead.
Go.
Within misfortune lies fortune,
you two are bound by fate.
The course of destiny
is now in your hands.
With Young Master Ji's ethereal looks,
becoming a monk would be such a waste.
I wonder if he'd be willing
to become a live-in son-in-law.
Zhao, how far have things
progressed between you two?
I haven't seen him in ages.
And yet you're making
Peony Fish Fillet for him.
-You've never made it for me.
-That's right.
I'll make it for you next time.
Young Lady Zhao, Old Madam
is having migraines again.
Doctor, how is Grandmother's condition?
Her migraines are a result of years of
accumulated stress. It can't be rushed.
Just follow the prescription,
and she'll recover gradually.
-Thank you, Doctor.
-I'll take my leave now.
Quack!
-Who are you calling a quack?
-Whoever is answering me.
-You…
-Quack! Quack! Quack!
I won't argue with a brat like you!
Good day!
If you're going to follow
that quack's prescription,
not even the gods can save her.
Don't jinx her!
Oh? And do kind words save lives?
Take off Old Madam's clothes.
You can save her, right?
The root of her illness is blocked energy,
stuck in the Zhongwan
and Taichong acupoints.
One above the navel,
the other on the top of the foot.
Her clothes must be removed
for proper needle therapy.
You're a man, after all.
Shouldn't we find a female doctor instead?
Female doctors are scarce to begin with.
Grandmother hasn't eaten
or drunk anything.
There's no time to delay.
Grandmother.
Everyone has their fate.
Perhaps my time has come.
This is unbelievable.
It's a treatable illness,
yet you refuse to treat it.
If everyone clings to propriety
and rules, what's the point of doctors?
Old Madam, isn't your life more important
than some outdated proprieties?
Grandmother,
to a doctor, there's no distinction
between men and women,
only patients.
I don't want to lose you
because of societal conventions.
For my sake, please just give it a try.
Grandmother.
Shou Gu!
Grandmother finally took her medicine.
-I'll go serve her some plain porridge.
-Go on.
Avoid meat and stimulating food.
Got it.
-Thank you.
-It's nothing.
Thank you.
Grandmother has finally fallen asleep.
Momentary peace doesn't
guarantee lasting health.
Her illness stems from emotional
stagnation and unresolved worries.
If the root cause isn't addressed,
she won't live long.
Grandmother has always
carried a heavy burden in her heart.
She refuses to talk about it,
and I don't know how to help.
If she doesn't want to resolve it,
that's her choice.
Everyone dies.
Just spend more time with her
while she's still here.
That glare you just gave me,
you think I'm heartless
and cruel, don't you?
I just don't understand
why you treat life and death so casually.
My father said I was born
with a closed heart,
indifferent to feelings.
I've never shed a single tear
since I was little.
When I was four, he fell gravely ill.
He gave me this telescope
and told me he would become a star.
So, every night I used it
to watch the stars.
I even learned astronomy by heart.
But I knew,
I wouldn't find him,
because when people die,
they just turn to dust.
Everyone dies.
Living is but a path to death,
and death is the beginning of life anew.
That's right.
What matters is how we live our lives.
So, little dreamer,
how do you want to live?
Honestly, I haven't thought that far.
To live a single lifetime
is already hard enough.
To live it well,
that's a luxury.
If I can spare some energy
to help those around me,
that's more than enough.
You're content with such a simple wish?
What about you? Have you given up
on becoming a monk?
I was only sent to the temple as a child
because of my poor health.
While there, I learned medicine
from the abbot.
A small doctor heals the sick,
a great doctor heals the nation.
I want to become Grand Secretary.
That would be interesting.
I've studied the biographies of grand
secretaries from the past 300 years.
It's a path of gradual
promotions and endurance.
Most of them took at least 50 years
to reach the second rank.
Too slow and not worth it.
I need to find another way.
There's no shortcut
to becoming Grand Secretary,
unless you want to be
a sycophant or a traitor.
That's an option too.
Talking to you is always so fun.
Let's talk more
when I return from the capital
as the top scorer in the imperial exam.
Before you leave for the capital,
I have a favor to ask.
I want to learn medicine from you.
Even though people are destined
to part ways eventually,
I want to do my best
to prolong the time we have together.
THE TRUE TRADITION OF MEDICINE
Not bad.
Young Master Ji and Shou Gu
meet in private every day.
They must be in love. Want to bet on it?
Bring it on.
A chicken and a duck.
What a perfect match.
Let's do it.
Your dissection
of the hen today was decent,
but we'll have to try on
a human body next.
We're going to the mass grave tonight.
All right.
They're going on a date in the mass grave?
You win.
THE TRUE TRADITION OF MEDICINE
Ji Yong? Ji Yong?
I invited Ji Jian Ming here
just to see if he and Shou Gu
might be a good match.
You're so perceptive.
Look how well they suit each other!
One doesn't know how to love,
and the other isn't interested in it,
they do make a fitting pair.
Too bad it's never going to work out.
Study the medical texts regularly.
If I find out you've been
slacking off when I return,
-you'll be in for some needles.
-Fine.
But if you fail the exam,
you'll also be in for needles.
But failing the exam would be too easy.
If I don't top the exam,
I'll let you do whatever you want.
The nation is suffering
from deep-rooted problems,
and I've diagnosed it.
I've heard the higher the rank,
the harder it is to retire.
Becoming a historically renowned
statesman isn't necessarily fun.
Local officials' laziness
is just a symptom,
systemic flaws in administrative
structures are the root cause.
If reforms are enforced from the
top down, streamlining and discipline
could save countless taels
and restore vitality to the nation.
I'm off.
He is extraordinarily gifted
and ambitious.
But why did he shave his head
and became a monk in my dreams?
Amitabha.
JI YONG, PRODIGIOUS MONK
A prodigy to rival Wenchang
Daring to teach Confucius the stars
A LONE MINISTER GAZES UPON THE COLD SEA,
TEN YEARS OF STEADFAST LOYALTY…
Loyalty and treachery, gratitude
And enmity, all dismissed with a smile
The green bamboo and yellow blossoms
Mark the end of the mortal form
FUTING
The Grand Preceptor has
Instructed me to explain the reasoning
The Duke of Ding is in Futing now
for disaster relief.
Our government is out of grain.
We'd better keep a low profile and
avoid drinking banquets these days.
What's there to be afraid of?
GUESTS FEEL AT HOME
You don't understand.
That Song Mo is like a living Yama.
I've heard that once he locks
onto someone and questions them,
-Did you take bribes or not?
-he'll uncover crimes without fail.
-No, I didn't.
-Whether it's imperial relatives,
wealthy merchants,
or high-ranking officials,
he investigates them all the same.
Song Mo, how dare you raid
our Tang family!
Do you even know who my brother is?
Do you know who I am?
The eight Tang brothers control
all the salt affairs, stone mines,
and canal transport in Futing.
Our family won't let you
get away with this!
Who else?
This is disrespectful!
Go back to your stage!
How dare an actor like you
jump on our table!
DING
The Duke of Ding's Army?
General Song?
General Song!
-General Song, spare me!
-General Song!
I'll give you half of my money.
Just let me live!
Alright.
I'll leave you with
half your limbs and organs too.
General, have mercy!
All the embezzled money is here.
Enough to leave you a whole corpse.
If you don't want to die, tell me
where you're hiding
the private grain reserves.
Your Grace, please reconsider.
It's His Majesty's decree to let the
crown prince oversee disaster relief.
While your intentions are good,
speaking against an imperial order…
DING WEI
…is something I dare not do.
Eunuch Ding,
tens of thousands of people are dying.
They can't afford to wait
for a royal to travel thousands
of miles here just to put on a show?
Do they even know how many
people starve to death every day?
I've opened the granaries
for disaster relief on my own.
-Your Grace…
-Relay my words as I said them!
If there are consequences, I'll bear them.
Grand General.
The General has bought grain
from the neighboring county
with confiscated embezzled funds.
The grain is being sent
to the porridge stations.
Well done!
SPRING TREES AND EVENING CLOUDS
I have to go take a look.
-Old Madam.
-Let me go take a look.
-It's fine.
-The rain is too heavy. You can't.
-Grandmother.
-Shou Gu.
Your health has just started to improve.
You shouldn't be out in the rain.
I have to check it myself.
With such heavy rain,
though we've prepared grain
-and repaired the foundations and roofs,
-Hurry!
how can they withstand such a deluge?
The ordinary thatched houses
will collapse.
The tenant farmers
will be left homeless and starving.
-Here.
-Don't worry, Grandmother.
I'm going to work with
the farmers and craftsmen
to repair the canals and distribute food.
I promise to keep the villagers safe.
You should stay here at the estate
and allocate the supplies.
Tuo Niang, stay with Grandmother
and assist her with the arrangements.
Leave the rest to me.
-Then…
-Don't worry, Young Lady Zhao.
You have to be careful, Shou Gu.
Don't worry. I will.
Stay safe!
Don't push! One at a time.
Don't crowd. Step back!
-Line up! There's enough for all of you!
-I'm starving!
CORRUPTED THIEF
-One by one. Hold it still.
-I want one.
Next!
-You will all get some.
-Give me some.
-One by one.
-I'm here first!
Mister,
why is this hairpin made of white stone?
Isn't it heavy to wear a stone
on your head?
Look.
It's not heavy anymore.
No matter what it's for, it can be
exchanged for 30 catties of rice.
Now you and your parents won't go hungry.
Take it.
Thank you, mister!
The grain carts are here!
-Careful.
-Hurry!
Careful!
Watch out!
-Young Lady?
-What's wrong, Young Lady?
-General?
-Mister!
-General!
Who are you?
Why are you here?
It's you.
We haven't found each other yet.
You cannot die now.
The General is awake.
-He's awake.
-The General's awake.
-Good.
Thank goodness.
I'll inform the Grand General.
General.
You injured your head three days ago.
We tried everything,
decoctions, acupuncture,
but you just wouldn't wake up.
Fortunately, Grand General saw
this item and decided to ignite it.
Amazingly, it actually worked.
Doctor, what incense is this?
It's benzoin incense.
Legend has it that
after Yang Guifei's death,
Emperor Xuanzong was unable to sleep.
Only this incense could help him sleep
and dream of his lost love.
Oh, I know! The General must have
dreamed of his sweetheart!
Shut up.
She saved my life.
Where's Grand General?
The Grand General stayed
by your bedside all night.
He went to inspect the newly
repaired seawall before dawn.
The weather this year has been strange.
Heavy rains have fallen in many places.
Even Jinmenwei and Zhending
have been affected by disasters.
Zhending…
-There's more.
-Here, have some.
Excuse me.
-Here.
-Thank you.
Thank you.
-Have a bun.
-Thank you.
-Eat up.
-Have a bun.
-Here.
-Thank you.
How is it?
Here.
-Distribute it to them.
-Okay.
Thank you.
Don't worry, he'll get better.
SILENCE
TWO WEEKS LATER
Pardon our intrusion.
My master's surname is Mei,
a merchant from the south.
We humbly request lodging for the night.
Young Lady, you're awake.
What time is it?
Just past the third quarter
of the Yin hour.
Young Lady, a group of merchants arrived
at the estate seeking lodging.
Their leader calls himself
Young Master Mei.
But these men have calloused palms
and move silently.
Mr. Chen has sent people several
times asking if you're awake yet.
Invite Mr. Chen over now.
They've surrounded exits of the estate.
They're going to slaughter everyone.
We only took the baby to
ask for a chance of negotiation.
Whether it ends in bloodshed
or discussion is up to you.
Young Lady Zhao,
you're not involved in politics.
How do you know so much about
the Duke of Ding's case?
Who are you, really?
NO ANIMALS WERE HARMED
DURING THE MAKING OF THIS FILM.
MEDICAL ACTS AND DRUGS IN THIS DRAMA
ARE FICTIONAL. DO NOT IMITATE.